### Project Proposal ###
Re-analyzing RNA Seq data
In this project, I will use transcriptomic data from Jahan et al., 2020. In this study, the authors were investigating the two genes from the NAC-family transcription factors (TF) GmNAC42-1 which include GmMYB29A1 and GmMYB29A2 that were upregulated during glyceollin biosynthesis. The two soybean lines were used are Williams82 (W82) and Harosoy63 (H63) that contain the resistance gene Rps1k which can activate the glyceollin biosynthesis when encounter race 1 of Phytopthora sojae, the pathogen that caused soybean root and stem rots. Glyceollin is one of the antimicrobial phytoalexins soybean produces to resist the pathogens. The authors used RNA sequencing technology in one of their experiments to identify the TF candidates in the transformed W82 hairy roots and H63 seeds at their respective times of maximum glyceollin accumulation in response to cell wall glucan elicitor (WGE) from P. sojae. They were searching for all the TF genes that were significantly upregulated by the WGE compared with the non-inoculated controls (P<0.05).  The data of this study are obtained by running the RNA samples in the Illumina HiSeq 1500 instrument. The resulting reads are stored in NCBI database under the accession number GSE131686. 
For the transcriptomic data from RNA Seq in this study, I expected that the raw data will be compressed and in FASTQ format. For the data analysis, I think I will need to use the bash in OSC shell to download the data files from NCBI, organize and check quality using FastQC software. The reads will be expected to be cleaned, filtered to remove the rRNA contamination, adapter sequences and then aligned to the soybean reference genome Gmax_275_V2.0.fa; https://phytozome.jgi.doe.gov/pz/portal.html). For this type of data analysis, I think multiple external programs are needed. I expected to use the R programming language with the Rsubread , Rbowtie2, and edgeR package to do the alignment and may be compare with STAR RNA-seq aligner the author used in the paper. I think I possibly need separate scripts in R to run multiple files at once. The output of the data is expected to be the paired mapped reads in .bam files that can be used for further analysis. If the analysis ran well until this point, I think I may proceed to calculate the number of reads per genes using Feature Counts and then identify the Differentially expressed (DE) genes using the DESeq2 package as mentioned in the study. 
I think for this project I’m uncertain about is the two last parts of the analysis which contain calculation of the reads using the Feature Counts and then identify the DE genes. We didn’t go over the R programming in this class but I learnt about RNA Seq analysis in a previous class but still not very confident in doing the whole analysis by myself. I’m not sure if I can properly to interpret the results also. 
I picked this project because it is quite relevant to my project in regard of pathogen-plant host system and transcriptomic study. The data from the study used are similar to the data I expected to see in my project, which will involve RNA sequencing technology. I think working on this project will give me more experience in processing RNA Seq data and also feedback from the instructors and my peers for improvement of the project. Overall, having practical experience with RNA Seq analysis will be helpful for my own project later. 
Reference paper:
Jahan, M. A., Harris, B., Lowery, M., Infante, A. M., Percifield, R. J., & Kovinich, N. (June 01, 2020). Glyceollin Transcription Factor GmMYB29A2 Regulates Soybean Resistance to Phytophthora sojae. Plant Physiology, 183, 2, 530-546.
